Hi, this is Craig Golightly,
and welcome to Kubernetes for Developers: Moving to the Cloud.
When we talk about running in the cloud,
we're talking about running your application on the hardware and
infrastructure of a cloud service provider.
These providers take care of securing a datacenter
location with the proper power and cooling,
and setting up the physical machines, switches,
routers, firewalls,
and internet bandwidth to support an extremely large number of customers.
They take care of the physical security at the datacenter itself,
as well as securing all of the equipment within the
datacenter down to the last hard drive.
They are also paying for the 24/7/365 staff to monitor and
maintain all of these physical and virtual resources.
So basically,
everything that is required behind the scenes to actually run your application.
In exchange, you will pay a small amount,
usually per second, for the resources you use when you use them.
Technically,
there are a couple of different ways you could run Kubernetes in the cloud.
The first would be to set up your own Kubernetes
infrastructure using cloud machines.
This would require expertise in the setup and administration of Kubernetes.
You would need Kubernetes administration staff to maintain the Kubernetes
infrastructure that you would use to run your application.
This is different than maintaining your application.
Let me say that again.
The Kubernetes cluster is separate from your
application and requires its own maintenance,
troubleshooting, and optimization so that it can actually run your application.
The other option is managed Kubernetes.
This is where the cloud provider takes care of the underlying setup,
maintenance,
and troubleshooting of the actual Kubernetes infrastructure so that you can
simply use Kubernetes clusters to run your application.
There are several advantage to using the Managed Kubernetes option.
First, speed.
Kubernetes is ready to go.
In this course you are going to see how quickly you can set up an account and
have an application running on a managed Kubernetes cluster.
Next, simplicity.
You can focus on your app, not Kubernetes,
and know that teams of experts are making sure your clusters can
stay up to date with features and security.
Finally, scale.
As your application grows,
additional nodes and storage resources are ready and available
for you to use when you need to use them.
You'll have different options out of the box to ensure you have high
availability and high throughput for your application.
Then there's cost.
Just by moving to the cloud, whether do-it-yourself or managed,
you get the advantage of pay-as-you-go pricing to start
running your application right away.
You won't need millions of dollars and several months to build up
everything yourself just to launch your app,
and if your application has seasonal or periodic bursts,
then drops in activity,
you can scale down your cluster so you're not paying for idle resources.
With managed Kubernetes, you get all of the advantages of cloud,
plus some cloud providers are only charging you for the compute and
networking resources you actually use in your cluster,
not for kube Master and other Kubernetes infrastructure
overhead that is needed for the service to run.
These things tend to change often so be sure to check the pricing for
each cloud provider for current pricing models.
Some providers also offer a serverless option where pods are
provisioned to a service that provides resources on demand so there
is 0 VM machines to manage for your node pool.
Depending on your requirements,
that could be a good fit and reduce costs and overhead for
your Kubernetes cluster in the cloud.
An important thing to be aware of as you move forward with
Kubernetes in the cloud is how costs are calculated.
Most cloud providers offer reserved instance discounts on nodes that
you are going to use for an extended period of time,
usually 1 to 3 years.
This is purely an accounting concept tied to a particular node type,
not an actual physical node.
For example, if you have purchased one reserved instance,
then one of your running instances of that type is billed at
a lower rate than the on-demand price.
Using reserved instances can significantly reduce your monthly bill,
depending on how many nodes you are running all of the time.
It's not something to worry about as you get started,
but once you are actively using Kubernetes in the cloud,
you will definitely want to look into it.
We'll be looking at Managed Kubernetes services from
three different cloud providers.
We're covering these in alphabetical order by the name of
the their Managed Kubernetes service.
This is to clarify that we aren't playing favorites here.
This isn't a ranked list or order of recommendation or anything like that,
it's just that someone has to be first so the dictionary
seems like a good model to follow.
We'll cover Microsoft Azure with the Azure Kubernetes Service or AKS,
Amazon Web Services with the Elastic Kubernetes Service or EKS,
and Google Cloud platform with the Google Kubernetes Engine or GKE.
To highlight the similarities and differences of the cloud providers, we'll use the same demo app to deploy to each managed Kubernetes cluster.